---
layout: post
---
Today my pair-programming partner and I finished off the bare bones for our Battleship game and could hypothetically modify it to meet the requirements of most board games.  It's been a really challenging couple of days of following our excellent coach's tutorials when we couldn't recreate the tests and code ourselves.
This was all done in Ruby using Rspec for testing, this time around we didn't have any feature tests at all but a lot of unit tests.  It's interesting to see how different people like to work, ultimately any style can be used to create a polished and lean end product.
The greatest challenge was definitely coming to terms with doubles for purposes of unit testing.  Below is a taster of just some of the doubles we had to employ in our most demanding spec file, the one used to test for board creation.  
{% highlight ruby linenos %}
let(:cell) { double :first_cell, content: '' }
let(:second_cell) { double :second_cell }
let(:cell_class) { double :cell_class, new: cell }
let(:board) { Board.new({ size: 100, cell: cell_class, number_of_pieces: 5 }) }
let(:ship) { double :ship, size: 2, sunk?: false }
let(:small_ship) { double :ship, size: 1, sunk?: true }
{% endhighlight %}  
Next week I think we will be using Sinatra to create a web-version of Battleships, but a weekend is a long time in coding and tomorrow we get our weekend challenge, so everyone is somewhat nervous once again.  

<!--more-->  

This is the current end product for our board application code.  
{% highlight ruby linenos %}
class Board
  DEFAULT_SIZE = 1
  DEFAULT_NUMBER_OF_PIECES = 1
  attr_reader :grid, :number_of_pieces

  def initialize options
    size = options.fetch(:size, DEFAULT_SIZE)
    cell = options.fetch(:cell)
    @number_of_pieces = options.fetch(:number_of_pieces, DEFAULT_NUMBER_OF_PIECES)
    @grid = {}
    letter_range_based_on_size(size).map do |letter|
      (1..dimension_size(size)).map{ |number| @grid["#{ letter }#{ number }".to_sym] = cell.new }
    end
  end

  def dimension_size size
    Math.sqrt(size).ceil
  end

  def letter_range_based_on_size size
    ('A'..to_letter_in_alphabet(dimension_size(size)))
  end

  def to_letter_in_alphabet number
    (number.ord + 64).chr
  end

  def place(ship, coord, orientation = :hor)
    fail 'Ship out of bounds' unless coords_for(ship.size, coord, orientation).all? { |coord| coord_on_board? coord }
    coords_for(ship.size, coord, orientation).each do |coord|
      grid[coord].content = ship
    end
  end

  def coords_for size, coord, orientation
    coords = [coord]
    (size - 1).times { coords << next_coord(coords.last, orientation) }
    coords
  end

  def next_coord coord, orientation
    orientation == :hor ? coord.next : coord.to_s.reverse.next.reverse.to_sym
  end

  def coord_on_board? coord
    grid.keys.include? coord
  end
  
  def fill_all_content_with something
    grid.each do |cell|
      cell.content = something
  end

  def hit cell
    fail 'Hit out of bounds' unless coord_on_board? cell
    grid[cell].content.hit
  end

  def all_ships_sunk?
    ships.all?(&:sunk?)
  end

  def ships
    grid.values.map(&:content).select{|content| content.respond_to? :sunk? }
  end

  def ready?
    ships.count == number_of_pieces
  end
  
  def lost?
    all_ships_sunk? && ready?
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}  

[The Github repo as it stands can be viewed here](https://github.com/saramoohead/battleships_tutorial) 
If we get time we may try and create a terminal version of our game for laughs, putting the finishing touches to the setup is going to be interesting.
